# A Difference-in-Differences Analysis on the Effect of Youth Purchase Prohibitions on Cigarette Demand

The focus of this study will be on policies regarding the prohibition of cigarette purchases by youth. In 1992, the Synar Amendment was enacted through the Alcohol, Drug Abuse, and Mental Health Administration Reorganization Act (HealthyPeople.gov 2022). This amendment was a national policy that required the enforcement of the prohibition of the sale of tobacco products to people under 18 years old. It also developed a compliance checking mechanism through annual, random, and unannounced inspections of stores selling tobacco. Some states already had their own more restrictive policies aimed, not only at businesses selling cigarettes, but at the minors who are attempting to purchase cigarettes. This seeks to further discourage smoking by placing some responsibility in the hands of minors. In response to this amendment, some states followed suit and enacted similar provisions. On the other hand, there were some states that did not develop a youth purchase prohibition provision. This prompts the question of how effective were youth purchase prohibitions on reducing cigarette demand?

### The Data
The data on the youth purchase prohibition legislation come from the [CDC's State Tobacco Activities Tracking and Evaluation (STATE) System](https://nccd.cdc.gov/STATESystem/rdPage.aspx?rdReport=OSH_State.CustomReports&rdAgReset=True&rdShowModes=showResults&rdShowWait=true&rdPaging=Interactive&islMeasure=628YAC). Only data on youth access legislation related to purchasing prohibitions were considered. The original data set included the year (1995-2018), quarter, state, provision policy, citation, enacted year, and effective year. For the purpose of this study, only quarter 4 of each year was considered. To determine policy start date, this study considered the enacted year of the provision. The enacted year captures changes in behavior related to anticipated future changes in policy. These data were merged with Orzechowski and Walker's data on the [Tax Burden of Tobacco, 1970-2018](https://chronicdata.cdc.gov/Policy/The-Tax-Burden-on-Tobacco-1970-2019/7nwe-3aj9). To measure change in cigarette demand, this study uses the measure of cigarette sales-per-capita. This is a sufficient measure for demand as it gives information about the purchasing behavior of consumers.
